So now that we had this brief refresher on the very basics of angular,
it's time to work on the real application we're building and we want to build a beautiful application
right. Now we could write all the css styles on our own and write everything from scratch on our own
but this is an angular or especially a mean stack guide
and I want to focus on these mean stack components and not so much on the styling.
Therefore I'll use angular material which is a package actually also created by parts of the angular
team which gives us a set of pre-built angular components
and that's important.
It's not just a styling package,
it's not like bootstrap,
It's actually an angular package which ships with a couple of angular components which we can drop into
our application.
Now we'll still write all the core logic of our application on our own
but all the nitty gritty details and to be honest, quite a lot of the styling will be taken care of.
Now this uses Google's material design so of course you have to like that to be happy with that
but I think it looks quite nice and if we have a look at the components part on material.angular.io,
we can see it has a bunch of pre-built components that should give us everything we need to build
a nice application, to include things like header, include things like our buttons, our inputs, things
like that.
So this is what I want to work with and to add it to our project, I'll quit my development server for
now and I need to install this, so I will run npm install
--save, this will install a new dependency into that project, npm is that package manager
and now it's @angular/material.
Now don't hit enter yet,
this is one way of adding it.
Now if you're using the latest cli version which you very likely are, cli version 6+ to be precise,
then you've got a different command available
and if you don't use that latest version, you could always update by running npm install -g @angular
cli by the way.
So if you use that latest version and your project was created with the latest version too, you can run
ng add,
now that's a cli command, @angular/material
and what this will do is it will also install the material package but also already configure your project
to include it
and I'll of course show you what this means, what included actually means.
And by the way, I also got a series on YouTube and my web page which you can check out,
you'll find a link to it in the last lecture of this module where I give a little bit of a more detailed
walkthrough of angular material,
I also got another course here on udemy where I dive deeper into it, in this course
this will not be an angular material course,
I just want to use it and that will therefore just explain the basics you need to know about using it.
So now it's done setting it up and what it did is in the package.json file,
it added a new dependency or two new dependencies to be precise, angular material,
this package and the angular cdk.
Now the material package actually is split up in two packages you could say, one for the logic behind
the components and one for the concrete implementations and the styling,
the cdk is the logic, material is then logic plus styling and more on that in that series I just mentioned.
This is included, this is installed as a dependency. In the angular.json file which configures our
project, it also did one thing, it added
this input here, this style here which simply includes a default theme of the material design package, indigo pink
so that's just some color, sets a styling for all these components and you can actually switch that with
another pre-built theme,
you can see all of them in node modules at angular
and then there search for material here and then in material, you should find a folder pre-built themes,
this one
and there you see for files indigo pink, deep purple amber and so on.
Now we're using indigo pink here and you can always switch this, so you can also use purple, green, deep
purple, amber,
I'll stick to this one but you can switch this with one of the other files.
So this is the styling that is added,
now what else did the ng add command do for us?
It added that our app module, there it now imports the browser animations module, a part of the angular
framework because some of these components provided by angular material use animations and therefore
this is included too.
And that's basically it,
you can also see a lot of what it did here,
so it updated package.json, angular.json, app module, style.css, now also the index.html file,
there we can see what it did is it included imports to the material icons so that you can use these icons
and the roboto font so that our text actually has the normal material design too.
So that is what now happened,
now we can restart ng server,
we can start using angular material. And to use it,
we actually just need to import what we need and use the component in our template.
So first of all, let's start by pimping that post create component
and for that, let's look at form controls in the official docs,
that sounds promising
and what we need is some some input, right,
we need some inputs,
we want to be able to add a text area,
so we get our input and text area elements which we can use and here, if we check out that example
code, we can also see how such an input is created with the material package.
Essentially we add this matInput thing to an input element, we can ignore that form thing for now.
So let's go back to our project and to use such an input element, we need to unlock it because by default
none of the components provided by angular material is available in our application
and this is done to save space, that our final application is as small as possible and we don't import
things which we don't use. Now I want to use something of course,
so let's actually move that import here up to the top to keep all the angular imports in one place and
then let's import something from @angular/material and that something I want to import here is just
a module,
it's the matInputModule
and we can take that module and add it to the imports array
and what this does is it unlocks all the input related components.
So now we can go back to the post create component html file and there, the text area we simply add matInput
to it,
this is the selector which turns this into an angular material input.
Well let's save this
and I don't see a big difference, do you?
Now the reason why we don't see the difference is that actually all these input components only work in conjunction
with another component we have to add as a wrapper
and that's the mat form field component.
Now that's just another component provided by angular material and we put our inputs in there.
Now I said we don't have to worry about that form thing and we don't, we won't use a form yet but
this is something we need to add to get a styling that looks better,
so now we can see angular material seems to do something, we don't have that ugly input from before.
Now it's also not super pretty yet but we'll get there. To turn this into a prettier component,
what I'll do is all use another component from the angular material framework and that's the mat-card.
So let's add another import in the app module, mat-card module, cart is a special container, a
look you will probably know from other pages. Let's add the mat card module to the imports array
and then in the post create component, I'll wrap my mat form field here with mat-card.
Now this creates such a card
look, if I put it in there and we save that, you will see now it's indented a bit more and you see there's
a slight shadow below that.
Now we can't see it that well because it's a bit hard to see, it's taking up all the width,
so let's restrict that width by also adding some custom styles to that,
we can still do that. I'll add a new file, post create component.css for the styling for this component
and we need to import this by going to the typescript file of the component and adding style urls
here,
now that's an array of external stylesheets,
we can only have one template but we can have multiple styles and there I'll point at post create component.css
.
Now we can write our own css code there and I will target my mat-card elements,
that's cool we can use the angular selectors here as style targets, so I'll target mat-card here and
actually restrict the width to let's say 80% and add margin
auto to center this. Now if we save that,
now we can see the card here a bit better and we got our form field in there and if we type, you see
this is our form field,
now this is taking shape. Now
I'm still not perfectly happy with that,
I also want a change to look of my text area a bit more, so I'll also target my text area in that component
and the cool thing is these styles will be scoped to this component,
so even if we use a text area or a mat-card in another component, these styles will not apply to
it,
it will just apply the styles to the elements in this component.
So I'll take my text area and set the width of it to 100% here actually,
however for this to have an effect
I also need to take the wrapping element, mat form field and give that a width of 100%
and now if we save that, you see the input is spanning the entire width here
and now I want to put my button into the card too.
So I'll take that button, put it below that mat form field,
remove the hr tag here and of course it would be nice if the button would look prettier too.
So we can turn it into a material design button by including one more thing from the angular material
package, the mat button module here and then I will add this down there,
mat button module.
So now we're including the mat button module and now we can go back to our html code and turn
this into a nice looking button by adding mat button or mat raised button to get this raised button
look and you can find out which values you can use
of course in the angular material docs, in case you want to dive deeper,
you can always dive into the docks, read through them, check the API documentation for a full list of the features
you can configure, things like that.
So now this is the button, now it would be nicer if it had some color
and thankfully if you check out the docs, you find out that you can add a color property, I'm just splitting
this over multiple lines to make it easier to read.
So here I will add color and you can set this to primary or accent or warn,
now warn is some warning color, red, don't want to do that,
I want to use my primary color, whoops, primary and now this will use the indigo color in this case because I'm
using the indigo pink theme.
You can of course also use accent and maybe I actually prefer this,
I think it's even clearer to see.
So now we get the button, we get the input here,
now this is looking prettier.
Now it's time to add a toolbar and then also add a real post management because right now we're not
really adding new posts,
we're just overwriting some text which we output.
Time to change that.